.TH LUMAPLAY 1
.SH NAME
lumaplay \- Playback a high dynamic range (HDR) video that has been encoded with \fBlumaenc\fR
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lumaplay --input \fIFILE\fR
[\fIOPTIONS\fR ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lumaplay
The application provides an interface for playback of high dynamic range (HDR) 
videos.

The video player can be controlled with the following keys:

  Ctr+Q/Ctr+W/Esc  -  Quit application
  Space            -  Pause video
  s                -  Seek to position indicated by mouse pointers horizontal position.
                      Left border of video is start of video, and right border is end 
                      of video.
  +                -  Increase exposure
  -/=              -  Decrease exposure
  t                -  Apply simple sigmoid tone curve
  l                -  Simulate low dynamic range (LDR) video
  z                -  Show timings

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-i  \fIFILE\fR, \fB\-\-input \fIFILE
HDR video input.

.TP
.B \-g  \fIVALUE\fR, \fB\-\-gamma \fIVALUE
Set display gamma value.

Default value is 2.2

.TP
.B \-s  \fIVALUE\fR, \fB\-\-scaling \fIVALUE
Scaling to apply to video sequence.

Default value is 1.0

.TP
.B \-fps  \fIVALUE\fR, \fB\-\-framerate \fIVALUE
Playback framerate, in frames/s, overriding the encoding framerate.

Default value is read from video file.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
\fBlumaplay\fR -i hdr_video.mkv -s 0.2 -g 1.8 -fps 25

Play HDR video hdr_video.mkv, with scaled intensity, custom gamma and custom
framerate.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lumaenc (1)
.BR lumadec (1)

