.TH LUMADEC 1
.SH NAME
lumadec \- Decode a high dynamic range (HDR) video that has been encoded with \fBlumaenc\fR
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lumadec
\fB\-\-input \fIFILE\fR
[\fB\-\-output \fIFILE\fR]
[\fIOPTIONS\fR ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lumadec
The application decodes a high dynamic range (HDR) video into a set of separate
HDR frames. The settings used in the encoding are stored in the video containter
and need not be specified for the decoding.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-i  \fIFILE\fR, \fB\-\-input \fIFILE
HDR video input.

.TP
.B \-o  \fIFILE\fR, \fB\-\-input \fIFILE
Output HDR video sequence. The frames are either stored in EXR format, or piped to
pfstools for further processing, in which case this option should not be used. Format
of the output frames is specified using a %d pattern.

.TP
.B \-v, \fB\-\-verbose
Enable verbose mode, to display additional information during the decoding.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
\fBlumadec\fR \fB--input\fR hdr_video.mkv \fB--output\fR hdr_frame_%05d.exr

Decode HDR video hdr_video.mkv into EXR frames at hdr_frame_%05d.exr.

.TP
\fBlumadec\fR \fB--input\fR hdr_video.mkv | \fBpfsout\fR hdr_frame_%05d.exr

The same as above, but using pfstools to write HDR frames. Note that pfstools can write frames in variety of formats, such as RGBE Radiance (.hdr extension) or uncompressed PFM files (.pfm extension). pfstools (http://pfstools.sourceforge.net/) must be installed for this command to work.

.TP
\fBlumadec\fR \fB--input\fR hdr_video.mkv | \fBpfsview\fR

View the video frame-by-frame using pfsview.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lumaenc (1)
.BR lumaplay (1)

